.\" icainfo-cex man page source
.\"
.\" use
.\"   groff -man -Tutf8 icainfo-cex.1
.\" or
.\"   nroff -man icainfo-cex.1
.\" to process this source
.\"
.TH ICAINFO-CEX 1 2021-06-25 IBM "icainfo-cex user manual"
.SH NAME
icainfo-cex \- print information about cryptographic functions supported by libica-cex
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icainfo-cex
[-v | --version] [-h | --help] [-c | --list-curves]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B icainfo-cex
prints a table that shows libica-cex's support for various cryptographic
algorithms and information about FIPS support.

The icainfo-cex output also indicates, whether it is in an error state.
Algorithms that are not FIPS approved are marked as blocked in both table
columns when running in FIPS mode. All algorithms are marked as blocked when
libica is in an error state.

Available hardware support is divided into two columns: dynamic hardware
means crypto cards, static hardware support means CPACF. Software support
is provided via openssl.

If a function is disabled via build option, this is indicated
by a dash '-' in the related column.

A shortened sample output is given below:
.P
.nf
      Cryptographic algorithm support
------------------------------------------------------
               |         hardware        |
 function      |   dynamic  |   static   |  software
---------------+------------+------------+------------
         SHA-1 |     no     |      -     |      -
       SHA-224 |     no     |      -     |      -
       SHA-256 |     no     |      -     |      -
       SHA-384 |     no     |      -     |      -
       SHA-512 |     no     |      -     |      -
         GHASH |     no     |      -     |      -
         P_RNG |  blocked   |      -     |      -
  DRBG-SHA-512 |     no     |      -     |      -
        RSA ME |    yes     |      -     |      -
       RSA CRT |    yes     |      -     |      -
           ...
------------------------------------------------------
Built-in FIPS support: FIPS mode active.
Software fallbacks are disabled in libica-cex.
CPACF support (including fallbacks) is disabled in libica-cex.
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-v or --version"
show libica-cex version and copyright
.IP "-h or --help"
display this help and exit
.IP "-c or --list-curves"
show supported elliptic curves
.SH RETURN VALUE
.IP 1
unknown or invalid argument on invocation
.IP 0
successful program execution
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR icastats (1)

